## 2.0.0

Shaku 2.0 is a heavily refactored Shaku version with some fundamental and breaking changes.

### Main Change

The need for `Shaku 2.0` comes from the mess in the rendering pipeline, specifically with how *Shaku* dealt with *batching*.

Batching is an important optimization to reduce GPU draw calls by combining together quads that share the same texture, blend mode and effect.

In previous versions I tried to hide the batch works behind the scenes and call draw internally when we needed to. This created a good looking API, but created performance traps and obscurity.

I felt these issues hard while making my first big *Shaku* powered project, and if I made mistakes with it, surely others will too.

The main thing I wanted to change with *Shaku* 2.0 was to make batching more visible to the users, and make the rendering API more similar to the legacy C# XNA (or MonoGame) framework, which has a pretty decent API.

So, now instead of drawing things like this:

```js
Shaku.gfx.draw(...);
```

We'll need to create a batch and use it like this:

```js
// init
const spritesBatch = new Shaku.gfx.SpriteBatch();

// render
spritesBatch.begin();
spritesBatch.draw(...);
spritesBatch.end();
```

Yes, it's slightly less user friendly. But its clearer, and forces the user to know when a draw call is made.
This way also creates some new abilities, like the ability to redraw an entire batch more than once with different effects without rebuilding the batch (super fast!).

And like everything with `Shaku`, if you want a more high-level abstract API, you can just wrap it with a simplified draw() call similar to what `Shaku` had in the past.

Note that there are now multiple type of draw batches; for sprites, text, shapes, etc.

### Other Changes

Since I decided to do breaking changes in the `gfx` manager anyway, I took the opportunity to push other breaking changes as well:

- Started using private methods with '#' to hide internal logic.
- Removed deprecated stuff and renamed some methods that had problematic names.
- Changed static getters that create instances, like `Vector2.one`, to be normal static methods. This communicates better that a new object is created rather than accessing a member.

### All 2.0 Changes

- Builds with `WebPack` instead of `Browserify`.
- Huge refactor in gfx and rendering batches.
- Improved APIs and private methods with #.
- Improved docs.
- Added textures atlas.
- Removed some useless logs.
- Renamed `Shaku.isPaused` to `Shaku.isCurrentlyPaused()`.
- Renamed `Shaku.paused` to `Shaku.pause`.
- Renamed `Shaku.pauseTime` to `Shaku.pauseGameTime`.
- Will now share loggers with the same name and not recreate them.
- Changed `Vector2.length` to `Vector2.length()` since its a calculation.
- Changed `Vector3.length` to `Vector3.length()` since its a calculation.
- Renamed `Vector2.fromDegree()` to `Vector2.fromDegrees()`.
- Renamed `Vector2.degreesToFull()` to `Vector2.wrappedDegreesTo()`.
- Renamed `Vector2.radiansToFull()` to `Vector2.wrappedRadiansTo()`.
- Renamed `Vector2.rotatedRadians()` to `Vector2.rotatedByRadians()`.
- Renamed `Vector2.rotatedDegrees()` to `Vector2.rotatedByDegrees()`.
- Renamed `Vector2.degreesBetweenFull()` to `Vector2.wrappedDegreesBetween()`.
- Renamed `Vector2.radiansBetweenFull()` to `Vector2.wrappedRadiansBetween()`.
- Changed left,right,up,down,.. `Vector2` getters to regular methods, to indicate it generates a new returned object.
- Changed left,right,up,down,.. `Vector3` getters to regular methods, to indicate it generates a new returned object.
- Fixed bug in `Vector3.set()`.
- Removed `createEffect()` method; can now just create effect instances normally.
- Removed deprecated `setUvOffsetAndScale()` method.
- Added the ability to set attributes and uniforms on inactive effects; will store values in effect instance and apply them as soon as you draw with the effect.
- Replaced all `instanceof Array` checks with the more robust and faster `Array.isArray()`.
- Removed `sprite.static` property, as its not properly implemented.
- Added basic effect without vertex color.
- Updated and renamed the basic built-in effects.
- Fixes in Sfx manager.
- Added `getPixelsData()` to textures.
- Added better support in Color uniforms in effects.
- Added a built-in effect for sprites with outline.
- Removed deprecated.
- Added 'flipY' flag when loading a texture.
- Added 'premultiplyAlpha' flag when loading a texture.
- Improved effects uniform binds and renamed some of them - this might break custom effects.
